doc: Add section in load balancing about Bokeh extensions (#7832)
holoviz/panel: doc/how_to/concurrency/load_balancing.md

# Load balancing

> Setting up load balancing is a huge topic dependent on the precise system you

Reviewer: Setting up load balancing is a huge topic, dependent on the precise system you

Author: ```suggestion
Setting up load balancing is a huge topic, dependent on the precise system you
```

> are using so the example below will be very generic. In most cases

Reviewer: are using, so the example below will be very generic. In most cases

you set up a reverse proxy (like NGINX) to distribute the load across multiple

> application servers. If you are using a system like Kubernetes it will also

Reviewer: application servers. If you are using a system like Kubernetes, it will also

> handle spinning up the servers for you and can even do so dynamically depending

Reviewer: handle spinning up / shutting down the servers for you, and can even do so dynamically, depending

on the amount of concurrent users to ensure that you are not wasting resources

> when there are fewer users.

Reviewer: when there are fewer users, and / or when there is less computing demand.

<figure>
<img src="https://assets.holoviz.org/panel/how_to/concurrency/what-is-load-balancing-diagram-NGINX.png" width="768"></img>
<figcaption>Diagram showing concept of load balancing (NGINX)</figcaption>
</figure>

Load balancing is the most complex approach to set up but is guaranteed to
improve concurrent usage of your application since different users are not
contending for access to the same process or even necessarily the same physical

> compute and memory resources. At the same time it is more wasteful of resources

Reviewer: At the same time it can be more resource-intensive. Since each process is isolated, there is no sharing of cached data or global state between processes.

Note: are there potential solutions to isolated cache / global state? Like a cache at a higher level that is accessible by each process?

If so, provide some high-level mention or hint to these solutions?

Author: Removing multiple machines as part of the sentence is incorrect to me, mainly because a way to share resources if you were on the same machine would be to save them to disk. 

I don't think there is a high-level solution. It will depend on the use case. One acceptable solution would be to accept it is isolated; another would be to have a server used to communicate with it or set your system up to have file access. 

People who need to use load balancing will likely already know how to handle it; if not, there will be better resources for this than this page.

since it potentially occupies multiple machines and since each process is
isolated there is no sharing of cached data or global state.

> 

Reviewer: Should there be a mention that Tornado is used by default, and that Flask and FastAPI are also options? I am not sure if and how using one of these three (or more)? options relates to concurrency / load balancing, but should this at least be mentioned, with links to the Panel docs for use of Flask and FastAPI?

Author: I don't think, as it has nothing to do with load balancing.

# Load balancing

Setting up load balancing is a huge topic, dependent on the precise system you
are using, so the example below will be very generic. In most cases
you set up a reverse proxy (like NGINX) to distribute the load across multiple
application servers. If you are using a system like Kubernetes, it will also
handle spinning up and shutting down the servers for you, and can even do so dynamically, depending
on the amount of concurrent users to ensure that you are not wasting resources
when there are fewer users, and / or when there is less computing demand.

<figure>
<img src="https://assets.holoviz.org/panel/how_to/concurrency/what-is-load-balancing-diagram-NGINX.png" width="768"></img>
<figcaption>Diagram showing concept of load balancing (NGINX)</figcaption>
</figure>

Load balancing is the most complex approach to set up but is guaranteed to
improve concurrent usage of your application since different users are not
contending for access to the same process or even necessarily the same physical

> compute and memory resources. At the same time it is more wasteful of resources

Author: ```suggestion
compute and memory resources. At the same time it is more resource-intensive
```

since it potentially occupies multiple machines and since each process is
isolated there is no sharing of cached data or global state.

To get started configuring a load balancer take a look at the [Bokeh
documentation](https://docs.bokeh.org/en/latest/docs/user_guide/server/deploy.html#load-balancing).

## Use NGINX and Containers with Panel along with other Bokeh extensions

Panel is built on top of Bokeh and uses the Bokeh server to serve applications. To serve Panel-specific resources, Panel is defined as a Bokeh extension.

> Panel's resources are available on a CDN, but if you use other Bokeh Extensions, serving them directly from the Bokeh server can be beneficial.

Reviewer 2: Maybe expand a little on why it can be beneficial.

Author: ```suggestion
Panel's resources are available on a CDN, but if you use other Bokeh Extensions, serving them directly from the Bokeh server can be the only way to access them. 
```

Author: > Is it used as an example of a custom local extension that wouldn't be available on a CDN

Yes. Or something where you can't change the resources to get pulled from a CDN. 

> I'm trying to understand the consequences of all of this.

 If you haven't done that already, I suggest reading the original issue.

Reviewer 2: Perfect thanks!

you set up a reverse proxy (like NGINX) to distribute the load across multiple
application servers. If you are using a system like Kubernetes, it will also
handle spinning up and shutting down the servers for you, and can even do so dynamically, depending
on the amount of concurrent users to ensure that you are not wasting resources
when there are fewer users, and / or when there is less computing demand.

<figure>
<img src="https://assets.holoviz.org/panel/how_to/concurrency/what-is-load-balancing-diagram-NGINX.png" width="768"></img>
<figcaption>Diagram showing concept of load balancing (NGINX)</figcaption>
</figure>

Load balancing is the most complex approach to set up but is guaranteed to
improve concurrent usage of your application since different users are not
contending for access to the same process or even necessarily the same physical
compute and memory resources. At the same time it is more wasteful of resources
since it potentially occupies multiple machines and since each process is
isolated there is no sharing of cached data or global state.

To get started configuring a load balancer take a look at the [Bokeh

> documentation](https://docs.bokeh.org/en/latest/docs/user_guide/server/deploy.html#load-balancing).

Author: There is still good information on that page, albeit the static section is not ideal.

> documentation](https://docs.bokeh.org/en/latest/docs/user_guide/server/deploy.html#load-balancing).

Reviewer 3: Okay, I'm fine with it too. I guess we don't point to that section.
